---
slug: hello-pglet
title: Hello, Pglet
author: Feodor Fitsner
author_title: AppVeyor founder and developer
author_url: https://github.com/FeodorFitsner
author_image_url: https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/5041459?s=400&v=4
tags: [internal apps, pglet, introduction, design]
---

## The problems of internal apps

Hi, I'm Feodor Fitsner, the founder of [AppVeyor](https://www.appveyor.com) - CI/CD service for software developers.

At AppVeyor, as any other startup, we do a lot of **internal apps supporting the core business**. Our users don't see those apps. These could be scripts for processing database data, monitoring dashboards, background apps for housekeeping, scheduled scripts for reporting, backend web apps for account management and billing.

**Internal apps need User Interface** (UI) to present progress/results and grab user input. The simplest form of UI is text console output. Console output can be easily produced from any program or script.

**Text output has limitations**. It could be hard to present complex structures like hierarhies or visualize the progress of multiple concurrent processes (e.g. copying files in parallel). There is no easy way to fill out the form. Plain text cannot be grouped into collapsible areas. **We need rich UI** for our internal apps.

Console output can be logged and studied later or you can sit in front of your computer and stare at log "tail". But we want to be mobile. **We want to control internal apps from anywhere** and any device. We want to share the progress of long-running process with colleagues or send a link to a realt-time dashboard to a manager. Maybe have "Approve" button in the middle of the script to proceed with irreversible actions. We want to collaborate on the results in a real-time. Does it mean we need to build another web app?

**Building web apps is hard**. Our small team is mostly DevOps. We all do development, deployment and maintenance. **We are all good in doing backend coding in different languages**: Bash, PowerShell, Python, C#, TypeScript. However, not every team member is a full-stack developer being able to create a web app. Frontend development is a completely different beast: HTTP, TLS, CGI, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React, Vue, Angular, Svelte, WebPack and so on. Web development today has a steep learning curve.

**Building secure web apps is even harder**. Internal app works with sensitive company data (databases, keys, credentials, etc.) and presumably hosted in DMZ. You simply can't allow any developer being able to deploy web app with an access to internal resources and available to the whole world.

## Pglet to the rescue

`Pglet` (pronounced as "*pagelet*") empowers DevOps to easily add rich user interface into their internal apps and utilities without any knowledge of HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

### The idea

Let's say you are the developer responsible for deployment and maintenance of backend services and database - DevOp. You mostly work with Golang and use Bash or Python for writing scripts and tools. Your team asked you to implement a simple real-time dashboard with some metrics from backend services. Dashboard should be accessible outside your org.

Should you do a web app? You don't have much experience of writing web apps. Alright, you know the basics of HTML/CSS, you know how to use StackOverflow, but how do you start with the app? Should it be IIS + FastCGI or Flask, plain HTML + jQuery or React, or something else?

What if we give you a blank **page**, a standard set of nice-looking **controls** and the **API** to put those controls on a page and query their state? This is the idea behind Pglet.

Pglet is the tool that hosts pages for you. The page is a "canvas", a "hub", an "app" where both your program and users collaborate. Users view the page in their web browsers, of course. Programs use an API to control page contents and listen to the events generated by users. API is just plain-text commands like "add column A", "add text B to column A", "get the value of textbox C", "wait until button D is clicked" - it's easy to format/parse strings in any programming language.

Pseudo-code for the app:

```bash
connect to page "myapp"

# build entry form
add row to page
add col "form" to row
add textbox "yourName" to "form"
add button "submit" to "form"

# listen for events coming from a page
while $event = (receive events) {

  # user fills out the form and clicks "submit" button
  if $event == 'submit click' {
    $yourName = (get value of "yourName")

    # replace forms contents with the greeting
    clear "form"
    add text "Thank you, $yourName!" to "form"
  }
}
```


What if we have a **page**

**Pglet hosts pages**. Page  ("canvas", "hub").



What if there is a web **page** hosted somewhere




While trying to create my first web app I wouldn't care a lot about "design" - I'd be OK with "standard" look-n-feel. What I'd care about is functionality.

What if you can tell from code "add this", "get the value of that", "wait while the button is clicked", etc.

### Design priciples

* Standard controls: layout, data, form. No need of CSS - standard skins.
* Presentation layer is detached from application logic and moved into a separate process.
* Control UI from code. Imperative, not declarative. No templates (PHP, XML, JSX, ERB, HAML, etc. ), just commands: "add column", "insert text", "get textbox value", "clean panel", "receive events", etc. like SQL, but for UI.
* Security. Application "calls" presentation layer, not vice versa. Presentation layer doesn't have access and know nothing about internal resources. Break into web app and you get nothing! No connection strings, no keys or certificates, no passwords - nothing! Behind the firewall.
* Fast and simple API: plain commands over named pipes, no HTTP, no JSON. Bash, PowerShell and any other language.

[Diagram]



* Rich, fast, responsive UI available from anywhere
* Use any language you know
* Knowledge of web technologies is not required
* Fast local development
* Secure by design


