docs/controls/stack.md, before:

---
title: Stack
sidebar_label: Stack
slug: stack
---

Stack is a container-type control that allows to define the layout of its children controls.

Although the Stack control has a number of different properties, there are three in particular that define the overall layout that the component has:

* **Direction**: Refers to whether the stacking of children components is horizontal or vertical. By default the Stack control is vertical, but can be turned horizontal by adding `horizontal` property when using the control.
* **Alignment**: Refers to how the children controls are aligned inside the container. This is controlled via `verticalAlign` and `horizontalAlign` properties.
* **Spacing**: Refers to the space that exists between children controls inside the Stack. This is controlled via `gap` property.

Stacks can be nested inside one another in order to be able to configure the layout of the application as desired.

import { CodeSample } from '@site/src/components/code-sample';

## Examples

<CodeSample src="https://python-stack-example.pgletio.repl.co" height="1300px"
    python="https://github.com/pglet/examples/blob/main/python/controls/stack_control.py"
    />

## Properties

| Name              | Type      | Default | Description |
| ----------------- | --------- | ------- | ----------- |
| `horizontal`      | bool      | `false` | Defines whether to render Stack children horizontally. |
| `verticalFill`    | bool      | `false` | Defines whether the Stack should take up 100% of the height of its parent. |
| `horizontalAlign` | string    |         | Defines how to align stack children horizontally: `start`, `end`, `center`, `space-between`, `space-around`, `space-evenly`, `baseline` or `stretch`. |
| `verticalAlign`   | string    |         | Defines how to align stack children vertically: `start`, `end`, `center`, `space-between`, `space-around`, `space-evenly`, `baseline` or `stretch`. |
| `minWidth`        | string    |         | The minimum stack width. |
| `maxWidth`        | string    |         | The maximum stack width. |
| `minHeight`       | string    |         | The minimum stack height. |
| `maxHeight`       | string    |         | The maximum stack height. |
| `gap`             | string    |         | A gap between stack child controls. |
| `wrap`            | bool      | `false` | Defines whether Stack children should wrap onto multiple rows or columns when they are about to overflow the size of the Stack. |
| `bgcolor` | string  |         | Stack background color. |
| `border`  | string  |         | Border around stack in `<width> <style> <color>` format, e.g. `1px solid #550000` |
| `borderRadius` | string  |         | Border radius. |
| `borderLeft`   | string  |         | Border of the left side of stack in `<width> <style> <color>` format, e.g. `1px solid #550000` |
| `borderRight`  | string  |         | Border of the right side of stack in `<width> <style> <color>` format, e.g. `1px solid #550000` |
| `borderTop`    | string  |         | Border of the top side of stack in `<width> <style> <color>` format, e.g. `1px solid #550000` |
| `borderBottom` | string  |         | Border of the bottom side of stack in `<width> <style> <color>` format, e.g. `1px solid #550000` |
| `scrollx`         | bool      | `false` | Enable horizontal scrolling if stack contents doesn't fit into stack boundaries. |
| `scrolly`         | bool      | `false` | Enable vertical scrolling if stack contents doesn't fit into stack boundaries. |

### Child controls

* Any control - will be rendered in the body of the stack.

Commit message:

Updating docs for Pglet v0.6 (#46)
* Bump Docusaurus to v2.0.0-beta.15

* Added missing Page properties

* Server port updated

* 0.6.0 release notes

* Control properties updated.

* Persona control added.

* ComboBox control added.

* SplitStack control added.

* New TextBox properties

* Update 2022-02-13-pglet-0-6.md

* Update introduction.md

* New control examples

* Update sidebars.js

docs/controls/stack.md, after:

---
title: Stack
sidebar_label: Stack
slug: stack
---

Stack is a container-type control that allows to define the layout of its children controls.

Although the Stack control has a number of different properties, there are three in particular that define the overall layout that the component has:

* **Direction**: Refers to whether the stacking of children components is horizontal or vertical. By default the Stack control is vertical, but can be turned horizontal by adding `horizontal` property when using the control.
* **Alignment**: Refers to how the children controls are aligned inside the container. This is controlled via `verticalAlign` and `horizontalAlign` properties.
* **Spacing**: Refers to the space that exists between children controls inside the Stack. This is controlled via `gap` property.

Stacks can be nested inside one another in order to be able to configure the layout of the application as desired.

import { CodeSample } from '@site/src/components/code-sample';

## Examples

<CodeSample src="https://python-stack-example.pgletio.repl.co" height="1300px"
    python="https://github.com/pglet/examples/blob/main/python/controls/stack_control.py"
    />

## Properties

| Name              | Type      | Default | Description |
| ----------------- | --------- | ------- | ----------- |
| `horizontal`      | bool      | `false` | Defines whether to render Stack children horizontally. |
| `verticalFill`    | bool      | `false` | Defines whether the Stack should take up 100% of the height of its parent. |
| `horizontalAlign` | string    |         | Defines how to align stack children horizontally: `start`, `end`, `center`, `space-between`, `space-around`, `space-evenly`, `baseline` or `stretch`. |
| `verticalAlign`   | string    |         | Defines how to align stack children vertically: `start`, `end`, `center`, `space-between`, `space-around`, `space-evenly`, `baseline` or `stretch`. |
| `minWidth`        | string    |         | The minimum stack width. |
| `maxWidth`        | string    |         | The maximum stack width. |
| `minHeight`       | string    |         | The minimum stack height. |
| `maxHeight`       | string    |         | The maximum stack height. |
| `gap`             | string    |         | A gap between stack child controls. |
| `wrap`            | bool      | `false` | Defines whether Stack children should wrap onto multiple rows or columns when they are about to overflow the size of the Stack. |
| `bgcolor` | string  |         | Stack background color. |
| `borderWidth`  | string  |         | Border width in pixels around control, e.g. `1`. Multiple values separated with spaces can be provided to set border width for each of the sides: `top right bottom left`, e.g. `2 0 2 0`. |
| `borderColor`  | string  |         | Border color around control. Multiple values separated with spaces can be provided to set border color for each of the sides: `top right bottom left`, e.g. `yellow green blue gray`. |
| `borderStyle`  | string  |         | Border style around control: `none` (default), `dotted`, `dashed`, `solid`, `double`, `groove`, `ridge`, `inset`, `outset`. Multiple values separated with spaces can be provided to set border style for each of the sides: `top right bottom left`, e.g. `solid none none none`. |
| `borderRadius` | string  |         | Border radius in pixels, e.g. `5`. Multiple values separated with spaces can be provided to set border style for each of the sides: `top right bottom left`, e.g. `10 10 0 0`. |
| `scrollx`         | bool      | `false` | Enable horizontal scrolling if stack contents doesn't fit into stack boundaries. |
| `scrolly`         | bool      | `false` | Enable vertical scrolling if stack contents doesn't fit into stack boundaries. |
| `autoscroll`      | bool      | `false` | Automatically scrolls to the bottom when Stack contents is changed. `scrolly` must be set to `true` to make autoscroll work. |

## Events

| Name      | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `submit`  | Fires when `Enter` button is pressed in any input control inside the stack. |

### Child controls

* Any control - will be rendered in the body of the stack.
